[ANS] Add documentation (#3704)
SAP/jenkins-library: documentation/docs/configuration.md

environment, where the "Piper" binary is run. The environment variable used
is: `PIPER_ansServiceKey`

If Jenkins is used to run "Piper", you can use the Jenkins credential store
to store the alert notification service service-key as a "Secret Text"
credential. Provide the credential id in the configuration file as follows:

```yaml
hooks:
  ans:
    serviceKeyCredentialsId: 'my_ANS_Service_Key'
```

You can also create an event template in JSON format to overwrite or add
certain event details. There are two ways to do this:

1. Provide an event template file in JSON format and set the
   `eventTemplateFilePath` parameter in the config file as follows:

   ```yaml
   hooks:
     ans:
       eventTemplateFilePath: './path/to/my/eventTemplate.json'
   ```

2. Provide the JSON string directly in the environment where the "Piper"
   binary is run. The environment variable used in this case is:
   `PIPER_ansEventTemplate`. For example in unix:

    ```bash
    export PIPER_ansEventTemplate='{"priority": 999}'
    ```

If both event templates are defined they are merged together. Meaning that any
fields already defined by the JSON file will be overwritten by the

> environment JSON string.

Author: @LauraVeinberga Could you check these three lines? Thanks

log entry content as follows:

- `eventType`: the type of event type (defaults to 'Piper', but can be
  overwritten with the event template)
- `eventTimestamp`: the time of the log entry
- `severity` and `category`: the event severity and the event category
  depends on the log level:

  | log level | severity | category |
  |-----------|----------|----------|
  | info | INFO | NOTICE |
  | debug | INFO | NOTICE |
  | warn | WARNING | ALERT |
  | error | ERROR | EXCEPTION |
  | fatal | FATAL | EXCEPTION |
  | panic | FATAL | EXCEPTION |

- `subject`: short description of the event (defaults to the step name, but
  can be overwritten with the event template)
- `body`: the log message
- `priority`: (optional) an integer number in the range [1:1000] (not set by
  "Piper", but can be set with the event template)
- `tags`: optional key-value pairs. The following are set by "Piper":
  - `logLevel`: the "Piper" log level
  - `ans:correlationId`: a unique correlation ID of the pipeline run
    (defaults to the URL of that pipeline run, but can be overwritten with the
    event template)
  - `ans:sourceEventId`: also set to the "Piper" correlation ID (can also be

>     overwritten with the event template)

Author: indent more

- `resource`: the following default properties are set by "Piper":
  - `resourceType`: resource type identifier (defaults to 'Pipeline', but
    can be overwritten with the event template)
  - `resourceName`: unique resource name (defaults to 'Pipeline', can be
    overwritten with the event template)
  - `resourceInstance`: (optional) resource instance identifier (not set by

>     "Piper", can be set with the event template)

Author: indent more + forgot `resource.tags`

    newmanGlobals: 'myNewmanGlobals'
```

> ## Sending log data to the SAP Alert Notification Service (ANS) on BTP

Author: done

> The SAP Alert Notification Service (ANS) on BTP allows a user to define

Author: done

certain actions, such as for example sending email or triggering http

> requests, on incoming events. If the ANS service key is configured in Piper,

Author: done

> any Piper-go step will send log data to the ANS backend.

Author: So this is not a Piper specific step. If configured, ANS will be activated for all steps. Except the pure groovy steps, that have no go (golang) implementation. I changed this to:
"... any Piper golang step will send log data to the ANS backend."

> The following translation from log message to ANS event is performed:

Author: Could you check again if it is better now?

> - `eventType`: defaults to 'Piper'; can be overwritten with the event template

Author: done

- `eventTimestamp`: the time of the log entry

> - `severity` and `category`: here the log level is translated:

Author: done

  | log level | severity | category |
  |-----------|----------|----------|
  | info | INFO | NOTICE |
  | debug | INFO | NOTICE |
  | warn | WARNING | ALERT |
  | error | ERROR | EXCEPTION |
  | fatal | FATAL | EXCEPTION |
  | panic | FATAL | EXCEPTION |

> - `subject`: defaults to the step name; can be overwritten with the event template

Author: done

- `body`: the log message

> - `priority`: not set by Piper, can be set with the event template

Author: done

- `region`: cannot be set

> - `regionType`: cannot be set

Reviewer: Where are these taken from then?

Author: I will move the ones we cannot set to a descriptive text below, instead of having them in this list.

> - `tags`: optional key value pairs. The following are set by Piper:

Author: done

>   - `logLevel`: the logrus log level

Author: Change to "Piper". logrus is the underlying logging framework that Piper uses.

  - `ans:correlationId`: set to the Piper correlation ID

>   - `ans:sourceEventId`: set to the Piper correlation ID

Reviewer: Just so I understand, what is the correlation ID? 😅 Why do we need it?

Author: I will add some text. Usually it is the build url. It's supposed to be a fairly unique identifier of the pipeline run.

> - `resource`: the following defaults are set by Piper

Author: done

>   - `resourceType`: defaults to 'Pipeline'; can be overwritten with the event template

Author: done

>   - `resourceName`: defaults to 'Pipeline'; can be overwritten with the event template

Author: done

>   - `resourceInstance`: not set by Piper, can be set with the event template

Author: done

  - `globalAccount`: cannot be set
  - `subAccount`: cannot be set

>   - `resourceGroup`: cannot be set

Reviewer: Where are these taken from too?

> For a more detailed description and an example of the ANS event, please refer to

Reviewer 2: For more information and an example of the structure of an ANS event, see [SAP Alert Notification Service Events](https://help.sap.com/viewer/5967a369d4b74f7a9c2b91f5df8e6ab6/Cloud/en-US/eaaa37e6ff62486ebb849507dc33abc6.html) on SAP Help Portal.

Author: done

[this SAP help page](https://help.sap.com/viewer/5967a369d4b74f7a9c2b91f5df8e6ab6/Cloud/en-US/eaaa37e6ff62486ebb849507dc33abc6.html).

### ANS configuration

> The ANS service key needs to be present in the environment, where the piper

Reviewer 2: "Piper"

Author: done

binary is run. The environment variable used is: `PIPER_ansServiceKey`

> If Jenkins is used to run Piper, the Jenkins credential store can be used to

Reviewer 2: If Jenkins is used to run "Piper", you can use the Jenkins credential store to store the ANS service key as a "Secret Text" credential.

Author: done

store the ANS service key as a secret text credential. The credential id

> then needs to be provided in the configuration file as follows:

Author: done

```yaml
hooks:
  ans:
    serviceKeyCredentialsId: 'my_ANS_Service_Key'
```

> Optionally an event template in JSON format can be given, to overwrite or

Reviewer 2: You can also create an event template in JSON format to overwrite or add certain event details.

Author: done

add certain event details. There are two ways to do this:

> 1. One can either provide a event template JSON file, in which case the

Reviewer 2: 1. Provide an event template file in JSON format and set the `eventTemplateFilePath` parameter in the config file as
   follows:

Author: done

   `eventTemplateFilePath` parameter needs to be set in the config file as
   follows:

   ```yaml
   hooks:
     ans:

>        eventTemplateFilePath: '.pipeline/eventTemplate.json'

Reviewer: Does it need to be in the .pipeline folder?

Author: Nope, I'll make the example more generic

   ```

> 2. Another possibility is to provide the JSON string directly in the

Reviewer 2: 2. Provide the JSON string directly in the environment where the "Piper" binary is run.

Author: done

    newmanGlobals: 'myNewmanGlobals'
```

## Sending log data to the SAP Alert Notification service for SAP BTP

> The SAP Alert Notification service for SAP BTP (ANS) allows users to define

Author: Thanks for looking that up, I changed it everywhere.

certain delivery channels, for example, e-mail or triggering of HTTP

> requests, to receive notifications from pipeline events. If the ANS service

Author: done

> key is properly configured in "Piper", any Piper golang step will send log

Author: How about:
... any "Piper" step implemented in golang will send log data to the alert notification service backend.

> data to the ANS backend.

Author: done

> The ANS event properties are defined depending on the log entry content as

Author: done

follows:

- `eventType`: the type of event type (defaults to 'Piper', but can be
  overwritten with the event template)
- `eventTimestamp`: the time of the log entry
- `severity` and `category`: the event severity and the event category
  depends on the log level:

  | log level | severity | category |
  |-----------|----------|----------|
  | info | INFO | NOTICE |
  | debug | INFO | NOTICE |
  | warn | WARNING | ALERT |
  | error | ERROR | EXCEPTION |
  | fatal | FATAL | EXCEPTION |
  | panic | FATAL | EXCEPTION |

- `subject`: short description of the event (defaults to the step name, but
  can be overwritten with the event template)
- `body`: the log message
- `priority`: (optional) an integer number in the range [1:1000] (not set by
  "Piper", but can be set with the event template)
- `tags`: optional key-value pairs. The following are set by "Piper":
  - `logLevel`: the "Piper" log level

>   - `ans:correlationId`: set to the Piper correlation ID, a unique

Author: that's better, yes. done

    identifier of the pipeline run, usually set to the url of that run; can
    be overwritten with the event template

>   - `ans:sourceEventId`: set to the Piper correlation ID, a unique

Author: No, they are set to the same value. But instead maybe we could write:
```suggestion
  - `ans:sourceEventId`: also set to the Piper correlation ID; can also be overwritten with the event template
```
What do you think?

    identifier of the pipeline run, usually set to the url of that run; can
    be overwritten with the event template
- `resource`: the following default properties are set by "Piper":
  - `resourceType`: resource type identifier (defaults to 'Pipeline', but
    can be overwritten with the event template)
  - `resourceName`: unique resource name (defaults to 'Pipeline', can be
    overwritten with the event template)
  - `resourceInstance`: (optional) resource instance identifier (not set by
    "Piper", can be set with the event template)

> The following event properties cannot be set and is instead set by ANS:

Reviewer 2: are* instead set by the SAP Alert Notification service:

on SAP Help Portal.

### SAP Alert Notification service configuration

The SAP Alert Notification service service-key needs to be present in the
environment, where the "Piper" binary is run. The environment variable used
is: `PIPER_ansServiceKey`

If Jenkins is used to run "Piper", you can use the Jenkins credential store
to store the alert notification service service-key as a "Secret Text"
credential. Provide the credential id in the configuration file as follows:

```yaml
hooks:
  ans:
    serviceKeyCredentialsId: 'my_ANS_Service_Key'
```

You can also create an event template in JSON format to overwrite or add
certain event details. There are two ways to do this:

1. Provide an event template file in JSON format and set the
   `eventTemplateFilePath` parameter in the config file as follows:

   ```yaml
   hooks:
     ans:
       eventTemplateFilePath: './path/to/my/eventTemplate.json'
   ```

2. Provide the JSON string directly in the environment where the "Piper"
   binary is run. The environment variable used in this case is:
   `PIPER_ansEventTemplate`. For example in unix:

    ```bash
    export PIPER_ansEventTemplate='{"priority": 999}'
    ```

> 

Author: Add explanation of the default event template, being overwritten by the event template from file, being in turn overwritten be the event template from the environment.

Author: done
